bcb
================
Jireh Huang
(<jirehhuang@ucla.edu>)

# Bayesian Causal Bandits with Backdoor Adjustment Prior

[Jireh Huang](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jirehhuang/) and [Qing
Zhou](http://www.stat.ucla.edu/~zhou/)

## Installation

On R version 3.6.0 or more recent, first install the
[phsl](https://github.com/jirehhuang/phsl) package according to the
instructions provided by the author. The MCMC implementation requires
the installation of [bidag2](https://github.com/jirehhuang/bidag2), a
modified fork of
[BiDAG](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/BiDAG/index.html).
Unfortunately, some functionality of the bcb package is not compatible
with Windows due to the integration of
[BIDA](https://github.com/jopensar/BIDA) and
[modular-dag-sampling](https://github.com/ttalvitie/modular-dag-sampling),
copies of which are included in the `inst` folder with permission from
the respective authors.

Then, run the following code in R to install this package from GitHub
with its dependencies.

``` r
devtools::install_github("jirehhuang/bcb", dependencies = TRUE)
```

## Reproducing Numerical Results

This section contains instructions for reproducing the experimental
results in the paper. The following instructions assume that the current
working directory is writable and contains the scripts in
`inst/scripts`.

``` r
setwd("inst/scripts")
```

### Main Experiments

The main experiments are described and presented in Section 6 and
Appendix C. These results were obtained using a previous version of the
package available at [\[Google
Drive\]](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/10F-s6wyE_RQ3TKUnDe2y3r-9nVHCB6Ml),
compiled directly after the following
[\[commit\]](https://github.com/jirehhuang/bcb/commit/039aa34096065292762fc2a9e3c7abc3ab11f3e2).
After downloading, run the following code in R to install the package
from source.

``` r
install.packages("bcb_1.0.tar.gz", repos = NULL, dependencies = TRUE, type = "source")
```

#### 1. Generating Networks and Data

``` r
source("generate_dkpar.R")
```

`generate_dkpar.R` creates two folders nested in a folder `dkpar_3_6_3`,
randomly generating 100 discrete Bayesian networks in `dkpar_3_6_3-d_0`
and 100 Gaussian Bayesian networks in `dkpar_3_6_3-g_0`, as well as 10
observational datasets for each network. The script executed on a
i5-9600k using a single CPU core in about 40 minutes. The generated
networks and data are available at [\[Google
Drive\]](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1aAtAxcLeztgWNFPy2KceRJ5V9gUt79u8).

#### 2. Executing Algorithms

Remove `_0` from the generated directories from `generate_dkpar.R`,
resulting in folder names `dkpar_3_6_3-d` and `dkpar_3_6_3-g`.

``` r
source("run_dkpar.R")
```

`run_dkpar.R` executes 44 algorithms on the networks and datasets
`dkpar_3_6_3-{d, g}`, creating a folder for each algorithm and saving
the results for each execution. The script executed in about 7045 days
of single thread CPU time using the UCLA Hoffman2 computing cluster,
creating over 400 GB of output. Since these results are not practical to
store, only the compiled results are provided, discussed in the
following step.

#### 3. Compiling Results

``` r
source("compile_dkpar.R")
```

`compile_dkpar.R` creates the `concise` folder in `dkpar_3_6_3-{d, g}`
and, for each algorithm, compiles and saves the results of all
executions. Then, it averages the results of each algorithm, normalizing
where appropriate, and combines all results into `df_2.rds`. The script
executed in about 3 hours using 4 CPU cores on the UCLA Hoffman2
computing cluster. The compiled results are available at [\[Google
Drive\]](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1VP-WoJ5wDQM4LjOv_XZvXIcFvteezTII).

#### 4. Analyzing Results

Append `_done` to the compiled directories from `compile_dkpar.R`,
resulting in folder names `dkpar_3_6_3-d_done` and `dkpar_3_6_3-g_done`.
The compiled results for each algorithm are not necessary â€“ only
`df_2.rds` and `method_grid.txt` in the `concise` folder.

``` r
source("analyze_dkpar.R")
```

`analyze_dkpar.R` creates the cumulative regret
(`cumulative.{eps, png}`), cumulative regret with error bars
(`cumulative_err.{eps, png}`), head start for competing algorithms in
the discrete setting (`hs-d.{eps, png}`), and edge support sum of
absolute errors (`essae.{eps, png}`) figures. The analysis results
contain the necessary files to execute `analyze_dkpar.R` and are
available at [\[Google
Drive\]](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1BNCybuaKkQZkNtUkVc67KTqkz5FbE1eH)
and are most manageable in terms of file size.

### MCMC Experiments

The experiments using Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) to approximate the
structure posterior are provided in Section 6. The procedure for
reproducing these results is similar to that of the main experiments.
The results are available at [\[Google
Drive\]](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1TnH_GDVpB7oALLT9K_L5kgsSbxFMkPuG?usp=sharing).

``` r
source("run_dkpar2.R")
source("compile_dkpar2.R")
source("analyze_dkpar2.R")
```

``` r
source("generate_child.R")
source("run_child.R")
source("compile_child.R")
source("analyze_child.R")
```

### Additional Experiments

The additional experiments evaluating the proposed backdoor adjustment
methodology are provided in Appendix D.

``` r
source("test_bda.R")
source("analyze_bda.R")
```

`test_bda.R` creates folders `test_bda-{d, g}` nested in a folder
`test_bda`, investigating 24000 randomly generated scenarios for each
distributional setting. In each folder, an RDS file is compiled
containing the simulation results. The script executed in about 167 days
of single thread CPU time using the UCLA Hoffman2 computing cluster.
`analyze_bda.R` creates the backdoor adjustment coverage probabilities
for the discrete (`bda_coverage-d.{eps, png}`) and Gaussian
(`bda_coverage-g.{eps, png}`) simulations. The results are available at
[\[Google
Drive\]](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1BvlbSjHGmVEo4wim4tHMzCj4fVBf2gOA).
